README.md, before:

# Tooso Search for Magento 2

[Tooso](http://tooso.ai) is a cloud-based, multi-language search tool for e-commerce.

This extension replaces the default search of Magento with a typo-tolerant, fast & relevant search experience backed by [Tooso](http://tooso.ai/Default.aspx).

## Description

This extension replaces the default Magento search engine with one based on Tooso API.
It provide the following features:

* Fulltext search for catalog products (currently advanced search is not supported)
* Scheduled indexing of catalog products (under development)
* Automatic typo correction (under development)
* Search keywords suggest (under development)

## Requirements

* PHP > 7.0
* [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/)
* Magento >= 2.2.6

## Installation Instructions

### Latest version

Install latest version using composer:
```bash
composer require bitbull/magento-2-tooso-search
```

### Specific version

Install a specific version using composer:
```bash
composer require bitbull/magento-2-tooso-search:1.0.0
```

### Development version

Set "minimum-stability" to "dev" and switch off the "prefer-stable" config:
```bash
composer config minimum-stability dev
composer config prefer-stable false
```

Install latest development version using composer:
```bash
composer require bitbull/magento-2-tooso-search:dev-develop
```

## Module Configuration

### Request your API KEY
Send an email to info@tooso.ai to request your APIKEY

### Set your API KEY: 
1. Under __API Configuration__
* Insert your API key into __API key__ field
* Insert __http://v{apiVersionWithNoDot}.api.tooso.ai__ into __API base url__ field. The current supported version is 1, so the placeholder {apiVersionWithNoDot} should be replaced by 1.
* __Send report__: __YES__ to send a report to Tooso when an API error occourred	
* __Debug mode__:  __Yes__ to enable more verbose logging for debug purpose
2. Save configuration


## Programmatically use Tooso service

If you would like to call Tooso service that currently are not supported with the plugin we suggest this configuration.

Include in your class a dependency from `Bitbull\Tooso\Api\Service\ClientInterface` and let DI system do the rest:
```php
<?php

use Tooso\SDK\ClientBuilder;
use Bitbull\Tooso\Api\Service\ConfigInterface;
use Bitbull\Tooso\Api\Service\TrackingInterface;
use Bitbull\Tooso\Api\Service\LoggerInterface;

class MyServiceClass
{
    /**
     * @var ConfigInterface
     */
    protected $config;

    /**
     * @var TrackingInterface
     */
    protected $tracking;

    /**
     * @var ClientBuilder
     */
    protected $clientBuilder;
    
    /**
     * @var LoggerInterface
     */
    protected $logger;

    /**
     * Search constructor.
     *
     * @param ConfigInterface $config
     * @param TrackingInterface $tracking
     * @param ClientBuilder $clientBuilder
     * @param LoggerInterface $logger
     */
    public function __construct(
        ConfigInterface $config,
        TrackingInterface $tracking,
        ClientBuilder $clientBuilder,
        LoggerInterface $logger
    )
    {
        $this->config = $config;
        $this->tracking = $tracking;
        $this->clientBuilder = $clientBuilder;
        $this->logger = $logger;
    }

}

```
build the client instance using a `Tooso\SDK\ClientBuilder` instance
```php
<?php
    
    /**
     * Get Client
     *
     * @return \Tooso\SDK\Client
     */
    protected function getClient()
    {
        return $this->clientBuilder
            ->withApiKey($this->config->getApiKey())
            ->withApiVersion($this->config->getApiVersion())
            ->withApiBaseUrl($this->config->getApiBaseUrl())
            ->withLanguage($this->config->getLanguage())
            ->withStoreCode($this->config->getStoreCode())
            ->withAgent($this->tracking->getApiAgent()) //optional
            ->withLogger($this->logger) //optional
            ->build();
    }
``` 

this allow you to create a `Tooso\SDK\Client` instance to made any HTTP call to Tooso API with the pre-configured required parameters:
```php
<?php

    /**
     * Execute service
     */
    protected function execute()
    {
        $client = $this->getClient();
        $result = $client->doRequest('/path/to/service', \Tooso\SDK\Client::HTTP_METHOD_GET, [
            'param1' => 'value1',
            'param2' => 'value2'
        ]);
    }
```
access response data from the object of type `Tooso\SDK\Response` returned by `doRequest` method:
```php
<?php
$result = $client->doRequest('/path/to/service', \Tooso\SDK\Client::HTTP_METHOD_GET, [
    'param1' => 'value1',
    'param2' => 'value2'
]);
$responseData = $result->getResponse();
```

## Required theme changes

### Product click after search tracking

In order to make product click after search tracking work the frontend script need to find 
an attribute `data-product-sku` on the `a` tag with the product's link valorized with the product SKU. 
To do this edit your theme file `view/frontend/templates/product/list.phtml`, inside the product list cycle, in the following way:
```php
<a href="<?= /* @escapeNotVerified */ $_product->getProductUrl() ?>" data-product-sku="<?= $block->escapeHtml($_product->getSku()) ?>" class="product photo product-item-photo" tabindex="-1">
    <?= $productImage->toHtml() ?>
</a>
<div class="product details product-item-details">
  <!-- here the product details -->
```

### Suggestion frontend

This module can provide a suggestion on the search input, when you enable this feature you have to remove the default Magento suggestions system.
In order to do this remove the Magento suggestion initialization from your template or override the default template `view/frontend/templates/form.mini.phtml`.
Remove this initialization attribute from the search input:
```html
data-mage-init='{"quickSearch":{
    "formSelector":"#search_mini_form",
    "url":"<?= /* @escapeNotVerified */ $helper->getSuggestUrl()?>",
    "destinationSelector":"#search_autocomplete"}
}'
```  
and remove the suggestions container from the template:
```html
<div id="search_autocomplete" class="search-autocomplete"></div>
```

Commit message:

Add 'data-search-id' logic to override search id when using AJAX

README.md, after:

# Tooso Search for Magento 2

[Tooso](http://tooso.ai) is a cloud-based, multi-language search tool for e-commerce.

This extension replaces the default search of Magento with a typo-tolerant, fast & relevant search experience backed by [Tooso](http://tooso.ai/Default.aspx).

## Description

This extension replaces the default Magento search engine with one based on Tooso API.
It provide the following features:

* Fulltext search for catalog products (currently advanced search is not supported)
* Scheduled indexing of catalog products (under development)
* Automatic typo correction (under development)
* Search keywords suggest (under development)

## Requirements

* PHP > 7.0
* [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/)
* Magento >= 2.2.6

## Installation Instructions

### Latest version

Install latest version using composer:
```bash
composer require bitbull/magento-2-tooso-search
```

### Specific version

Install a specific version using composer:
```bash
composer require bitbull/magento-2-tooso-search:1.0.0
```

### Development version

Set "minimum-stability" to "dev" and switch off the "prefer-stable" config:
```bash
composer config minimum-stability dev
composer config prefer-stable false
```

Install latest development version using composer:
```bash
composer require bitbull/magento-2-tooso-search:dev-develop
```

## Module Configuration

### Request your API KEY
Send an email to info@tooso.ai to request your APIKEY

### Set your API KEY: 
1. Under __API Configuration__
* Insert your API key into __API key__ field
* Insert __http://v{apiVersionWithNoDot}.api.tooso.ai__ into __API base url__ field. The current supported version is 1, so the placeholder {apiVersionWithNoDot} should be replaced by 1.
* __Send report__: __YES__ to send a report to Tooso when an API error occourred	
* __Debug mode__:  __Yes__ to enable more verbose logging for debug purpose
2. Save configuration


## Programmatically use Tooso service

If you would like to call Tooso service that currently are not supported with the plugin we suggest this configuration.

Include in your class a dependency from `Bitbull\Tooso\Api\Service\ClientInterface` and let DI system do the rest:
```php
<?php

use Tooso\SDK\ClientBuilder;
use Bitbull\Tooso\Api\Service\ConfigInterface;
use Bitbull\Tooso\Api\Service\TrackingInterface;
use Bitbull\Tooso\Api\Service\LoggerInterface;

class MyServiceClass
{
    /**
     * @var ConfigInterface
     */
    protected $config;

    /**
     * @var TrackingInterface
     */
    protected $tracking;

    /**
     * @var ClientBuilder
     */
    protected $clientBuilder;
    
    /**
     * @var LoggerInterface
     */
    protected $logger;

    /**
     * Search constructor.
     *
     * @param ConfigInterface $config
     * @param TrackingInterface $tracking
     * @param ClientBuilder $clientBuilder
     * @param LoggerInterface $logger
     */
    public function __construct(
        ConfigInterface $config,
        TrackingInterface $tracking,
        ClientBuilder $clientBuilder,
        LoggerInterface $logger
    )
    {
        $this->config = $config;
        $this->tracking = $tracking;
        $this->clientBuilder = $clientBuilder;
        $this->logger = $logger;
    }

}

```
build the client instance using a `Tooso\SDK\ClientBuilder` instance
```php
<?php
    
    /**
     * Get Client
     *
     * @return \Tooso\SDK\Client
     */
    protected function getClient()
    {
        return $this->clientBuilder
            ->withApiKey($this->config->getApiKey())
            ->withApiVersion($this->config->getApiVersion())
            ->withApiBaseUrl($this->config->getApiBaseUrl())
            ->withLanguage($this->config->getLanguage())
            ->withStoreCode($this->config->getStoreCode())
            ->withAgent($this->tracking->getApiAgent()) //optional
            ->withLogger($this->logger) //optional
            ->build();
    }
``` 

this allow you to create a `Tooso\SDK\Client` instance to made any HTTP call to Tooso API with the pre-configured required parameters:
```php
<?php

    /**
     * Execute service
     */
    protected function execute()
    {
        $client = $this->getClient();
        $result = $client->doRequest('/path/to/service', \Tooso\SDK\Client::HTTP_METHOD_GET, [
            'param1' => 'value1',
            'param2' => 'value2'
        ]);
    }
```
access response data from the object of type `Tooso\SDK\Response` returned by `doRequest` method:
```php
<?php
$result = $client->doRequest('/path/to/service', \Tooso\SDK\Client::HTTP_METHOD_GET, [
    'param1' => 'value1',
    'param2' => 'value2'
]);
$responseData = $result->getResponse();
```

## Required theme changes

### Product click after search tracking

In order to make product click after search tracking work the frontend script need to find 
an attribute `data-product-sku` on the `a` tag with the product's link valorized with the product SKU. 
To do this edit your theme file `view/frontend/templates/product/list.phtml`, inside the product list cycle, in the following way:
```php
<a href="<?= /* @escapeNotVerified */ $_product->getProductUrl() ?>" data-product-sku="<?= $block->escapeHtml($_product->getSku()) ?>" class="product photo product-item-photo" tabindex="-1">
    <?= $productImage->toHtml() ?>
</a>
<div class="product details product-item-details">
  <!-- here the product details -->
```

If you are using an AJAX pagination approach (for example an infinite scrolling loading) you also have to add an attribute `data-search-id` on the `a` tag with the product's link.
In order to to this edit your theme file `view/frontend/templates/product/list.phtml` to load the Tooso Search ID value from registry key `tooso_search_response` (available from `\Bitbull\Tooso\Model\Service\Search::SEARCH_RESULT_REGISTRY_KEY` class constant), 
in this way:
```php
<?php
$objectManager = \Magento\Framework\App\ObjectManager::getInstance();
/** @var \Tooso\SDK\Search\Result $searchResult */
$searchResult = $objectManager->get('Magento\Framework\Registry')->registry(\Bitbull\Tooso\Model\Service\Search::SEARCH_RESULT_REGISTRY_KEY);
?>

<!-- your product collection loop -->

<a href="<?= /* @escapeNotVerified */ $_product->getProductUrl() ?>" data-product-sku="<?= $block->escapeHtml($_product->getSku()) ?>" data-search-id="<?= $searchResult->getSearchId() ?>" class="product photo product-item-photo" tabindex="-1">
    <?= $productImage->toHtml() ?>
</a>
<div class="product details product-item-details">
  <!-- here the product details -->
```
Obviously, this is just an example, is better to inject `Magento\Framework\Registry` dependency in your product's list controller using the [DI approach](https://devdocs.magento.com/guides/v2.2/extension-dev-guide/depend-inj.html).

### Suggestion frontend

This module can provide a suggestion on the search input, when you enable this feature you have to remove the default Magento suggestions system.
In order to do this remove the Magento suggestion initialization from your template or override the default template `view/frontend/templates/form.mini.phtml`.
Remove this initialization attribute from the search input:
```html
data-mage-init='{"quickSearch":{
    "formSelector":"#search_mini_form",
    "url":"<?= /* @escapeNotVerified */ $helper->getSuggestUrl()?>",
    "destinationSelector":"#search_autocomplete"}
}'
```  
and remove the suggestions container from the template:
```html
<div id="search_autocomplete" class="search-autocomplete"></div>
```
